hey guys welcome back to Dedes
Mediterranean kitchen
today I'm going to be making a recipe to
fulfill all the requests I've gone to
make falafel from scratch yes I said it
we're making falafel from scratch my
other recipe I was trying to help you
guys out and show you how to make it out
of the box really easy really quick for
those of you guys who are in a hurry and
don't have a lot of time and just want a
nice falafel sandwich or for those of
you who want to learn how to make it
from scratch I'm doing that today I
remember you can get this recipe and all
of my other recipes at WWDC I calm now
what we're going to start off with is
homos and fava beans now hum bows are
homeless peas or garbanzo beans you want
two cups of garbanzo beans and a cup and
a half of fava beans when you start off
when you buy them they're really small
and they're going to be dried you're
going to want to soak them overnight
before you do this so if you know you're
going to be making falafel the next day
soak your your beans the night before
when you soak them they're going to
double in size just like that yeah one
that's this big and one that's this big
see the difference
same thing with the fava beans they
double in size cuz they absorb all the
water what we're going to do we're going
to start off by blending these in a food
processor until they're very crumbly now
you don't want to do it out of the can
only because the garbanzo beans or
chickpeas that are out of the can have a
lot of preservatives in them and they're
a little bit too wet for the falafel and
that mixture becomes too moist and it
will fall apart on you when you're
trying to fry it no use
spoon being on the side to make sure
that they all get blended the same way
you want to get a large bowl and you
want to empty them let me show you look
how crumbly the mixture is there not a
paste they're just very crumbly now
while you're doing all of this you want
to heat about an inch of oil in a pan
vegetable oil corn oil as long as the
vegetable oil that's fine put it on low
heat and that the oil warm up for
preparedness and next what we're going
to do is we're going to blend the fava
beans make sure you buy the peel tava
beans I know that sometimes they sell
them unpeeled you want them peeled put
it in the blender blend in the same way
that you did
summer bottom just the fava beans and
they are in the same texture as the
homeless or as well we call it homeless
in Arabic but they're called a chickpeas
or garbanzo beans these are fava beans
we use a lot of beans in Middle Eastern
and Mediterranean cooking as I'm sure
you've noticed now you have them in a
nice Bowl just mix it up with a spoon
next we're going to blend the other
ingredients in the blender and then add
okay
we are halfway there next thing you're
going to need also you're going to blend
it in the food processor is one big
yellow onion I just chopped it up
coarsely just that it fits in the
processor you're going to also need one
a whole bunch of cilantro or about two
cups make sure you wash them rinse them
out really well you don't have to chop
them up or anything because we're going
to put them in the food processor and
you want one cup or a half a bunch of
parsley flat leaf Italian parsley is the
best it has a lot of flavor
the main ingredient the best ingredient
in the world
garlic eight nice large cloves of garlic
minced if you already have your garlic
minced you want two large tablespoons of
garlic garlic is amazing adds great
aroma agree adds a great element to the
dish
it's great so let's put all these in the
food processor and then we're going to
blend them up make sure they all fit in
here and then just blend it up until
it's well combined okay now that that's
done we're going to add it to the green
mixture make sure not to lose any of the
onion or garlic mmm this is so good so
all worth it all you've got all you fans
out there booth in emailing me and Tommy
please make the other four level please
make it from scratch please please
please I am doing this for you so what
ended next thing we're going to add to
this is a half cup of regular Anon
seasoned breadcrumbs just a half cup you
want two teaspoons of salt
just like that see you want one large
tablespoon of coriander you want one
teaspoon of cumin and then you want a
half a teaspoon or quarter teaspoon I'm
sorry I've KN pepper cayenne pepper adds
a little bit of a kick if you don't like
anything spicy you don't have to add it
so we'll just add this to it and then we
have to add some freshly ground black
pepper just about a quarter teaspoon 1/2
teaspoon now you want to combine
everything make sure you combine it very
well now if you see the mixture is a
little bit too dry you can add a
tablespoon or so of water
let's see now I have the oil heating
medium to low heat because you want the
falafel to cook all the way through now
I have a falafel maker and I have two
spoons I'm going to show you how to make
it both ways you also want a dish with a
paper towel in it to absorb any extra
oil you don't want them to come out too
oily so you get that falafel put it in
the mold just like that this is how you
make it in the restaurants
you fold make it all nice you're just
going to want to drop in just like that
let me show you how to make it with two
spoons if you don't have the mold that's
fine if you buy that the box for my
website I actually comes with a falafel
maker the falafel mold if you have two
spoons then you don't need it it does
look at that you can just mold up two
spoons and you have little around
falafel and just drop it in now I'm
fired up from the falafel look how nice
and pretty they are they're nice and
crispy make sure that if you're going to
be making the falafel make it right
before your guests arrive or right
before you want to serve it you don't
want to make it to have it too in
advance because if you have to reheat it
in the oven it becomes chewy becomes not
crispy I mean it's beautifully crispy
you can feel it and it smells amazing
I'm going to serve this up in a pretty
dish point two I'm going to serve it
with our taneous sauce that you can get
this recipe on my website at wwlp.com
tangy sauce just
and you can serve this with pita bread
you can serve it just with the salad
just like a bad Boop's a little bit with
us it's okay I want to sprinkle some
parsley on top and some green onions or
shallots it's beautiful there you go
you have original homemade falafel from
scratch right me I want to know how your
recipe turns out I want to make sure
that you guys are making this and
showing off to all of your friends enjoy
and join me again for Dedes
mediterranean kitchen